
qnpdub
======

qnpdub is the code repository to eventually run [qnpdub.org](https://qnpdub.org).

The project mission is to enable and foster amateur musicians to play along or dub to great music.

As a hobby musician you often have no time or like-minded people around to jam or start a band with.
Many give up on playing music all together, some play all by themselves to music they like.

Let's change that and jam together across space and time!

Back story
----------

Hi, my name is Martin. Some years back I inherited a conga and started fooling around with it. I
have fun playing it, but nobody ever heard me play. There was never really an occasion.

I wanted to share what I love with people in my life and hopefully find others to jam with - in a
3-degrees of Kevin Bacon kind of way.

After failed attempts I invested into some [cheap gear](https://github.com/mb0/show/README.md) and
[started recording](https://github.com/mb0/show/REC.md). Great open source software, like Ardour,
Blend, FFmpeg and Linux, allowed me to record, edit and mix audio and video.

In one week I learned the basics and recorded over 14 hours of me playing to music. It is not all
good, but I had my moments and some parts turned out OK. It's a hobby. So far, so good!

Problems
--------

Sharing the finished media files provides some problems, that cannot be easily solved.

### Sharing

Sharing the audio is possible enough by itself. But nobody I know plays conga and would have a clue
what to make of it by itself. If mixed with the original track, some people suggest to turn the
track down, some want to hear it together. Any of it is already potentially a copyright violation,
when shared publicly.

Many people however are visually oriented. Especially my father - he needs prescription hearing
aids, but never wears them. So I had some fun creating collages of me playing to some videos I
dubbed to, for him and others to experience it in their own way. I found NPR Tiny Desk concerts with
Jon Batiste and Jake Blount, that he liked. I also recorded a KNOWER video I love and improvised to
the new STARBLASTER video in my Youtube suggestions.

Sharing big video files privately is not easy. Dropping it into a chat or an email severely limits
the length and quality. File sharing makes some aspects easier, but requires some cooperations on
part of the receiving end (my parents wouldn't know what to do). On to of that, clicking on a link
in an email, to visit some website, to download and play a video, is not something my parents could
and most friends would do. It should not be as pushy as an invitation to an amateur art exhibition.

Uploading to Youtube is the most obvious and trivial solution. You can even share it privately with
other Google accounts, but that has similar problems as with file sharing. The other options both
share it publicly, which opens a whole new Pandora's box (of worms!): Copyright.

### Copyright

If you take copyright serious you accept defeat immediately. You would need to know all rights
holders, track down their representatives, get their contacts, explain your project and hope for the
best. To this day I have not found anyone willing to explain to me how this works. Do professional
artists have some special database, platform or software to manage and request permissions for their
remixes, is this what publishers and agencies are for? I have no clue and I tried to ask.

Yet, there are tons of copyrighted songs on Youtube, that were uploaded by users without any rights
at all. This appears to be tolerated due to different reasons. Some videos might be considered fair
use. Other times the Track-ID system lets copyright owners still profit. Or because nobody raised
any objection yet.

I tried sharing videos on Youtube naively, before reading up on the details of fair use, experience
this status quo. After two accepted fair use claims, for an individual Jamiroquai song and a Prince
song as part of a 2 hour mix, I felt bold and wrote to NPR for advice regarding my Tiny Desk concert
collages. I hoped somehow for an answer that affirms this status quo. Something like: it's not
strictly OK and we reserve our rights to block the content at any time, but as long as it is like
that we wont take action regarding our video rights.

My project would generally not be seen as fair use, although it could be seen as commentary,
promotion and has some educational aspects for me. Even dancing or whistling publicly to a
copyrighted song could get you in trouble, if it rises to a performance. In the end nobody wants to
give any advice other than to talk to a lawyer you cannot afford. Any lawyer would then advise you
to stop, because the worst case is not just a take down request for a video, but financial damages
to be replaced.

Solution
--------

 1. Collect underpants
 2. ?
 3. Profit

All I wanna do is feel some joy. I have my reasons. I'm not the only guy.

License
-------

(c) 2023 Martin Schnabel
